## Context
The colony was first established in 1964, in the context of a honeymoon. However, it saw a revival under the guidance of a professor in 1988. At its inception, the colony boasted between 10 and 20 males and an equivalent number of females. Quite early on, this colony bifurcated into two separate locations. It's surmised that both sites likely had the same original founders.

In the late 1990s - early 2000s, new animals were introduced to the colony at least on one occasion. It's pertinent to note that there could exist species within the colony that doesn't pique our interest and was not part of the original group. The likelihood of interbreeding amongst these animals seems scant.

Roughly 5-10 years ago, all animals within the colony were subjected to sampling. Some of these creatures were still breathing when the colony was eventually disbanded, implying that certain samples are distinctly unique. Moreover, there were a few animals that lacked identifying bands.

## Sequencing
Regarding the research, a single cell line sample should be taken for ultra-long sequencing. Additionally, 6-7 tissues should be utilised for PacBio IsoSeq (talk with Michael Hiller). Plans are afoot to use between 10 and 20 animals for the PacBioReVIO.

A salient point to bear in mind is that the sampling endeavours should be designed to maximise genetic diversity. This is achieved via either pedigree distribution or IBD distribution.

We should investigate if someone is doing the pangenome, and if it is no, push it: https://bat1k.com/.
